# data_validation_with_shacl
Repository which has all the services in it to do the data validation based on the maturity model using SHACL and display results.

This code is integrated with the Leipniz data manager  in order to execute RDFUnit against a dataset located at the SPARQL endpoint and then provide the report via JekyllRDF.
The Jekyll part is still valid but the maturity model part was redone as a bigger working workflow in nextflow under [rdf-maturitylevel-pipeline](https://github.com/AKSW/rdf-maturitylevel-pipeline).
Thus the old stuff here is deleted, but could be found in the *running_with_ldm* branch.


## Idea
Users on the LDM could start data quality tests and see test results.
For this a [CKAN extension](https://github.com/stream-project/ckanext-qualityreports) is needed which calls the RDFUnit service and forwards users to the corresponding Jekyll page of the given dataset.

## RDFUnit
This is a webhook which puts ids send via http into a fifo queue of which each entry (id) is then used to gather SHACL shapes and RDF data from a SPARQL endpoint to generate reports.
These reports are stored in a ttl file.

**This part has to be updated to work with [rdf-maturitylevel-pipeline](https://github.com/AKSW/rdf-maturitylevel-pipeline).**

## Jekyll-RDF
This is a Jekyll container with the Jekyll-RDF plugin installed. It uses the ttl file generated by RDFUnit service to show RDFUnit reports as HTML websites.

## TODO

* authentification when using SPARQL endpoint
* using graph URIs based on dataset metadata
* integrate [rdf-maturitylevel-pipeline](https://github.com/AKSW/rdf-maturitylevel-pipeline)
* use maturity model for material data
* connect it with the federated data search done by TIB
